***PROFINET***
Profinet is an open industrial ethernet solution based on international standards(IEC 61158). 
used to communicate between device and controllers for automation
Profinet is an openstandard.
Profinet defines cyclic and acyclic communication between components, including diagnostics, functional safety, alarms and additional information.
to link all those components profinet employs standard unmodified ethernet for its communicatoin medium.
high speed and deterministic messages. Deterministic communication means delivering message exactly when they are expected

profinet is a communication protocol that lives at layer seven of the ISO/OSI model.
7. Application layer
6. Presentation layer
5. session layer
4. Transport layer
3. Network layer
2. Data link layer 
1. Physical layer

profinet can do TCP/IP and UDP/IP based communication for non time critical task, such as configuration and parameterization.
due to the potential latency and delays associated with IP based communication this method is unsuitable for time-critical tasks.
profinet employs a real time channel to deliver data in a fast and deterministic fashion for time-critical applications.

all ethernet frames have a field called an etheType, which indicated the kind of data encapsulated inside. PROFINET real-time communication is set to have an EtherType of 8892
upon arrival at a PROFINET station, the data is directed to the application immeditiely.(The profinet data goes directly from ethernet layer 2, to the applicatio layer 7. It skips the TCP/Ip layers entirely and avoids the variable time
it could take to be processed as such. Thus, communication speed and determinism imporve significantly.

Expected cycle times: 512ms to 250micro seconds can be achieved.
No special hardware or configuration is required. Included in all PROFINET components.

PROFINET Isochronous real time:
eliminated the variable data delay. by creating rules used to switch ethernet traffic and creating special rules for PROFINET traffic
enhanced rules:
Bandwidth reservation
scheduling
synchronization

allows cycyle time down to 31.25 microseconds and up to 1 microseconds of expected delays, also known as jitters.
PROFINET IRT is optional and only required  in specific high performance application.

Be strategic when choosing the controller, as the engineering tool you will use to configure the whole network is determined by the controller.
cables, connectors, and switched need not to be specialized for PROFINET. You can emply standard ethernet cables to build the network.
however, industially graded cables are the default for most installations, as usign standard ethernet cable in challenging envieronment can cause many issues.
commercially ethernet cables are not industrially graded, they break and damange and can ultimately compromise the network infrastructure and signal quality.

the most common connector type for Profinet is RJ45. M12 is also used in high expose environments
we can implement variety of topology line, star,tree,and ring. can be achieved by dediated switched or 2 port device.

PROFINET is compatiable with copper and fiver optic wired media and wireless via bluetooth or WIFI.

Connecting to and fetching data from devices that use the PROFINET protocol for communication can be challenging because PROFINET is primarily designed for deterministic industrial
communication and often relies on proprietary or hardware-specific implementations.

. Use Vendor-Specific APIs or SDKs

    Most PROFINET device manufacturers (e.g., Siemens, Beckhoff) provide their own SDKs or APIs for communication.
    These SDKs often include libraries, utilities, or examples to interact with their devices using the PROFINET protocol.

Check the vendor's website or device documentation for SDKs or software tools.
Install the SDK and configure your development environment.
Use Python bindings (if provided) or call the SDK functions using a wrapper (e.g., ctypes or Cython).

2. Use a Gateway or Converter

    PROFINET-to-Other Protocol Converters:
        Devices like gateways can convert PROFINET communication to protocols like OPC-UA, Modbus TCP, or MQTT, which can be easily accessed using Python libraries.
